One more Indian elephant falls to poachers' greed
Newkerala.com
December 5, 2005

Dharmajaygarh (Chhattisgarh): The Chhattisgarh Government has order an 
enquiry into the mysterious death of an elephant in the Dharmajaygarh forest 
on Friday.

The body of the elephant was found by the residents of the Krondha village 
on December two, who initially thought the elephant was alive, but when it 
did not move the whole day, they came to know that it was dead.

Bhoj Ram Rathiya, president of the Forest Protection Forum was the first to 
learn of it.

“When I came from duty, my son told that an elephant had died in the nearby 
area. It was too late in the night and I could do nothing but wait for 
daybreak. By 7 a.m. (local time) next day, I reached the committee's office 
and reported the incident,” said Rathiya.

The animal had a big wound on it's torso, with the major part of the head 
missing, and the tusk too was gone making it a prime case of poaching.

P K Kesar, the senior forest officer at the Dharmajaygarh reserve, however, 
said that the tusk has been retrieved.

“We tried looking around for clues that could explain the reasons of the 
elephant's death, like whether he had any bullet injuries etc. and the path 
he came from. We are also inspecting the condition of the site like signs of 
rampage and trampling, bloody trail and other details at a glance to help us 
to discover the possible run up to the death. But we drew a blank here and 
must depend on the post mortem for the final analysis. We have just learnt 
that the tusk that had been poached from it has been retrieved in the 
jungle,” said Kesar.

Indian Elephants are threatened by poaching for their tusks. The loss of 
habitat due to human pressure on forested areas is a major reason for the 
mammoth fall of population of elephants.
