Sidda draws large crowds to Manchanabele (India)
Mohit M. Rao, The Hindu
November 4, 2016

Even during a weekday, groups of curious onlookers attempted to make their
way into the fenced area of Machanabele dam.

The cynosure of all eyes, sympathy and attention was Sidda, a 35-year-old
injured tusker. Curiosity, however, has kept personnel of the Department of
Forests and the local police on tenterhooks. They want to make sure the
elephant is attended to despite the large crowds that come to take photos
or to feed the animal, or perform rituals to “aid its recovery”.

Since it fell into a ditch near Dodderi on the outskirts of Bengaluru on
August 30, the elephant has spent more than 55 days on the banks of the
reservoir. However, for the past 12 days, it has been immobile and writhing
in pain. This, however, has not deterred the crowds. During the Deepavali
holidays, police officials said, over 3,000 people, including Kannada film
actors, local politicians and visitors from Bengaluru and Mysuru, turned up.

On Thursday, more groups of people came, and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd.
officials, who have fenced the land around the reservoir, struggled to keep
them from entering their gates. “I’ve been seeing the elephant in the news
and felt like I had to see it,” said Ganganayya, a daily-wage labourer from
Nelamangala who had come with two of his friends.

Forest officials said the crowds had become a major hindrance to the
elephant’s treatment.

“They insist on feeding him or do pujas close to the elephant. They take
photos with the flash on. Many touch the elephant out of curiosity or for
blessings ... as crowds swell on holidays, it is becoming difficult to
treat the elephant,” an official said.

The crowds insist on feeding the injured elephant or do pujas close by.
They take photos with the flash on. It is becoming difficult to treat it