Wild Elephant Found Dead In Tripura, Police Suspect Poisoning (India)
Huffington Post, India
October 28, 2016

A wild elephant was found dead lying on an uncultivated land in Gudai
village near Kalyanpur Police Station recently.

Symptoms show that the animal might have died due to poisoning by pesticide
given by the villagers.

Ratan Debbarma, a local villager, told ANI: "We noticed a herd of around 12
to 14 wild elephants including a calf in the eastern Gudai village area. We
tried to scare them away but failed. This morning we came to know that an
elephant was lying dead there. We don't know how it died."

The forest officials along with veterinary surgeon are conducting an
autopsy to find out the actual cause of death.

District Forest Officer (DFO) Pritam Bhattacharjee said, "The elephant is a
sub-adult male and is around four years old. I came here along with the
veterinary surgeon after we got the information from the locals. Only after
completion of the veterinary examination, we shall dispose the body as per
the guidelines. The veterinary surgeon felt that it may be a case of
poisoning. He has collected blood, tissue and organ samples for
investigation."

The attack on wild elephants in Kalyanpur area is quite rampant and every
year just before the harvest of paddy and other crops, especially during
the dry season, when there is a crisis of food and water in the jungles,
herds of wild elephants enter the cultivated fields and destroy crops
leading to conflicts within the locals.

Earlier also, there have been reports of death of elephants mainly due to
electrocution in Kalyanpurarea.
\