Captured elephant has bullet on its forehead: HATF (India)
Mini Muringatheri, The Hindu
June 7, 2017

The wild elephant captured from Attappady and currently caged at Kodanad
Elephant camp has a bullet lodged on its forehead, the Thrissur-based
Heritage Animal Task Force (HATF) has alleged.

With photographs as proof, the task force, in their complaint to the State
Police Chief and Director of Project Elephant, Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change, New Delhi, alleged that the elephant bore many
pellets too on its body after poachers shot at it with airguns.

“The Forest Department has not taken any step to remove the bullet or the
pellets from the elephant’s body. They have kept it in a narrow cage
without any veterinary care,” alleged V.K. Venkitachalam, Secretary of the
Task Force.

He recalled that in a similar incident a few years ago, when the Tamil Nadu
Forest Department captured an elephant it too had a dozen of bullets on its
body. However, they managed to remove the bullets and the elephant lived
for many years.

Mr. Venkitachalam noted that the elephant, caught from Attappady, was
attacked by poachers who are very active on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border.
The wounds must have forced the animal to come out of the forest and take
refuge in human inhabited areas, he noted.

The task force urged the authorities to depute an expert team to Kodanad
elephant camp for removing bullet and pellets from the elephant’s body and
to provide treatment for it. It also demanded stringent action against the
poachers.

Meanwhile, R.K. Srivasthava, Director of the Project Elephant, MoEF, has
asked the State Chief Wildlife Warden to look in to the complaint of the
Heritage Animal Task Force and take appropriate action.
