ELEPHANT TORTURED TO DEATH
The Hindu
February 25, 2004

In yet another case of alleged cruelty to elephants by ill-trained mahouts, 
a domesticated 45-year-old elephant died at Mannarakottappady, near 
Kulanada, on the Kaippuzha-Panangad Road on Monday evening.

The elephant, Manikantan, belonged to a timber merchant who runs a sawmill 
at Panangad. The pachyderm was reportedly taken for a bath to the nearby 
river. According to eyewitnesses, the elephant was beaten up badly by the 
mahouts when it showed signs of hesitation to enter the river.

The pachyderm reportedly turned a little violent when it was tortured to get 
into the river waters. They said all the three mahouts attending on the 
tusker were in an inebriated state and had tortured the elephant in their 
efforts to get it out of the river too. A large number of local people had 
gathered on the riverbank to witness the incident when the elephant turned 
violent.

They said the mahouts had hit the elephant with rock pieces and sharp iron 
implements.

The pachyderm with contusion all over the body and cut injuries on the leg 
was tamed', later, and was taken to the road around 3 p.m. The tusker was 
reportedly found weary and it collapsed when it reached Mannarakkottupady 
near Kaippuzha Elanjickalkavu, the local people said.

Meanwhile, the three mahouts escaped from the scene after sensing the death 
of the elephant. The tusker's carcass was lying on the road till it was 
reportedly removed to an unknown' destination by some unidentified people 
late in the night, the local people said.

Ironically, the police at Pandalam are feigning innocence saying that no 
complaint had been registered in this connection so far.

Meanwhile, the reporter of a local daily was allegedly manhandled by the 
owner of the elephant when the former sought details of the mahouts. The 
owner was not willing to disclose the identity of the mahouts.