Electric fence poses serious threat against wild elephants (Thailand)
Thai PBS
September 20, 2017

See link
<http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/electric-fence-poses-serious-threat-elephants/>
for
photo & graphic.

Electric fence installed by farmers to protect their farm crops from
elephants has proven to be one of the biggest threats against the animals,
having killed almost 10 of them in the past two years.

The death of a bull elephants in a para rubber plantation in Ban Khao
Khong, Tambon Pawa of Kaeng Hang Maew district of Chanthaburi on Sept 17
and the death of another elephant one day afterward in Kanchanaburi
province were attributable to electric shock from electric fence.

Farmers living in areas located near the habitats of the pachyderms used to
resort to firecrackers or install barb-wired fence to protect their crops
from hungry elephants looking for food, but with little success.

Hence, many of them turned to electric fence using electricity generated
from a 12-volt car battery as the deterrent which does not work effectively
because of the thick skin of the animals. Then, they turned to the 220-volt
household electricity by attaching the household electric wire to the fence
which has proven to be effective – and deadly too.

Since 2015, Thai PBS news team has discovered that nine elephants were
electrocuted by electric fence in villagers’ farms – mostly in areas
bordering with the habitats of the animals.

But during June-September this year, five were electrocuted. The most
infamous incident took place in 2015 in La-u forest of Huey Sat Yai
district of Prachuab Khiri Khan when three elephants were electrocuted and
found lying dead next to each other.

Mattana Srikrachang, a former elephant expert of the Department of National
Parks, Wildlife and Plants Conservation, admitted that she was shocked by
the news of the two recent elephant deaths – electrocuted by electric fence
in Chanthaburi and Prachuab Khiri Khan.

She noted that the deaths of the two elephants were a clear sign that the
conflict between humans and animals has become more violent.

“We found out that, in the 69 conservation areas which are the habitats of
elephants, there are 21 points where the elephants manage to venture out to
scour for food such as the forests in the eastern region in Chanathaburi
and Rayong.

Here, villagers have installed electric fence to protect their crops and
some of them used 220-volt household electricity which is against the law
and intended to kill the elephants,” she said.

Ms Mattana admitted that the government’s project to dig trenches to
prevent elephants from getting out of their habitats has proven to be a
complete failure.

She explained that since there was not enough food and water in the jungle,
the elephants ventured out and encroached on human settlements to scour for
food and water.

“The habit of Thai elephants has not changed.  They are not aggressive nor
fierce.  But elephants learn to adjust themselves.  They found there are
plenty of food outside their habitats, so they kept coming out,” said Ms
Mattana, adding that she would like to know how many people were punished
and what was the extent of the punishment for causing the deaths of the
elephants.

Meanwhile, Paitoon Intharabut, chief of Salak Phra wildlife sanctuary in
Kanchanaburi, told Thai PBS that his officials had already lodged a
complaint with Lat Ya police over the death of an elephant.

Minister of Natural Resources and Environment General Surasak Kanchanarat
and officials will be in Chanthaburi on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss
with officials concerned to resolve the conflict between humans and
elephants and to follow up the project the trench project in Khao Sibha
Chan national park.
Electric fence poses serious threat against wild elephants (Thailand)
Thai PBS
September 20, 2017

See link
<http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/electric-fence-poses-serious-threat-elephants/>
for
photo & graphic.

Electric fence installed by farmers to protect their farm crops from
elephants has proven to be one of the biggest threats against the animals,
having killed almost 10 of them in the past two years.

The death of a bull elephants in a para rubber plantation in Ban Khao
Khong, Tambon Pawa of Kaeng Hang Maew district of Chanthaburi on Sept 17
and the death of another elephant one day afterward in Kanchanaburi
province were attributable to electric shock from electric fence.

Farmers living in areas located near the habitats of the pachyderms used to
resort to firecrackers or install barb-wired fence to protect their crops
from hungry elephants looking for food, but with little success.

Hence, many of them turned to electric fence using electricity generated
from a 12-volt car battery as the deterrent which does not work effectively
because of the thick skin of the animals. Then, they turned to the 220-volt
household electricity by attaching the household electric wire to the fence
which has proven to be effective – and deadly too.

Since 2015, Thai PBS news team has discovered that nine elephants were
electrocuted by electric fence in villagers’ farms – mostly in areas
bordering with the habitats of the animals.

But during June-September this year, five were electrocuted. The most
infamous incident took place in 2015 in La-u forest of Huey Sat Yai
district of Prachuab Khiri Khan when three elephants were electrocuted and
found lying dead next to each other.

Mattana Srikrachang, a former elephant expert of the Department of National
Parks, Wildlife and Plants Conservation, admitted that she was shocked by
the news of the two recent elephant deaths – electrocuted by electric fence
in Chanthaburi and Prachuab Khiri Khan.

She noted that the deaths of the two elephants were a clear sign that the
conflict between humans and animals has become more violent.

“We found out that, in the 69 conservation areas which are the habitats of
elephants, there are 21 points where the elephants manage to venture out to
scour for food such as the forests in the eastern region in Chanathaburi
and Rayong.

Here, villagers have installed electric fence to protect their crops and
some of them used 220-volt household electricity which is against the law
and intended to kill the elephants,” she said.

Ms Mattana admitted that the government’s project to dig trenches to
prevent elephants from getting out of their habitats has proven to be a
complete failure.

She explained that since there was not enough food and water in the jungle,
the elephants ventured out and encroached on human settlements to scour for
food and water.

“The habit of Thai elephants has not changed.  They are not aggressive nor
fierce.  But elephants learn to adjust themselves.  They found there are
plenty of food outside their habitats, so they kept coming out,” said Ms
Mattana, adding that she would like to know how many people were punished
and what was the extent of the punishment for causing the deaths of the
elephants.

Meanwhile, Paitoon Intharabut, chief of Salak Phra wildlife sanctuary in
Kanchanaburi, told Thai PBS that his officials had already lodged a
complaint with Lat Ya police over the death of an elephant.

Minister of Natural Resources and Environment General Surasak Kanchanarat
and officials will be in Chanthaburi on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss
with officials concerned to resolve the conflict between humans and
elephants and to follow up the project the trench project in Khao SiElectric fence poses serious threat against wild elephants (Thailand)
Thai PBS
September 20, 2017

See link
<http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/electric-fence-poses-serious-threat-elephants/>
for
photo & graphic.

Electric fence installed by farmers to protect their farm crops from
elephants has proven to be one of the biggest threats against the animals,
having killed almost 10 of them in the past two years.

The death of a bull elephants in a para rubber plantation in Ban Khao
Khong, Tambon Pawa of Kaeng Hang Maew district of Chanthaburi on Sept 17
and the death of another elephant one day afterward in Kanchanaburi
province were attributable to electric shock from electric fence.

Farmers living in areas located near the habitats of the pachyderms used to
resort to firecrackers or install barb-wired fence to protect their crops
from hungry elephants looking for food, but with little success.

Hence, many of them turned to electric fence using electricity generated
from a 12-volt car battery as the deterrent which does not work effectively
because of the thick skin of the animals. Then, they turned to the 220-volt
household electricity by attaching the household electric wire to the fence
which has proven to be effective – and deadly too.

Since 2015, Thai PBS news team has discovered that nine elephants were
electrocuted by electric fence in villagers’ farms – mostly in areas
bordering with the habitats of the animals.

But during June-September this year, five were electrocuted. The most
infamous incident took place in 2015 in La-u forest of Huey Sat Yai
district of Prachuab Khiri Khan when three elephants were electrocuted and
found lying dead next to each other.

Mattana Srikrachang, a former elephant expert of the Department of National
Parks, Wildlife and Plants Conservation, admitted that she was shocked by
the news of the two recent elephant deaths – electrocuted by electric fence
in Chanthaburi and Prachuab Khiri Khan.

She noted that the deaths of the two elephants were a clear sign that the
conflict between humans and animals has become more violent.

“We found out that, in the 69 conservation areas which are the habitats of
elephants, there are 21 points where the elephants manage to venture out to
scour for food such as the forests in the eastern region in Chanathaburi
and Rayong.

Here, villagers have installed electric fence to protect their crops and
some of them used 220-volt household electricity which is against the law
and intended to kill the elephants,” she said.

Ms Mattana admitted that the government’s project to dig trenches to
prevent elephants from getting out of their habitats has proven to be a
complete failure.

She explained that since there was not enough food and water in the jungle,
the elephants ventured out and encroached on human settlements to scour for
food and water.

“The habit of Thai elephants has not changed.  They are not aggressive nor
fierce.  But elephants learn to adjust themselves.  They found there are
plenty of food outside their habitats, so they kept coming out,” said Ms
Mattana, adding that she would like to know how many people were punished
and what was the extent of the punishment for causing the deaths of the
elephants.

Meanwhile, Paitoon Intharabut, chief of Salak Phra wildlife sanctuary in
Kanchanaburi, told Thai PBS that his officials had already lodged a
complaint with Lat Ya police over the death of an elephant.

Minister of Natural Resources and Environment General Surasak Kanchanarat
and officials will be in Chanthaburi on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss
with officials concerned to resolve the conflict between humans and
elephants and to follow up the project the trench project in Khao Sibha
Chan national park.
bha
Chan national park.
Electric fence poses serious threat against wild elephants (Thailand)
Thai PBS
September 20, 2017

See link
<http://englishnews.thaipbs.or.th/electric-fence-poses-serious-threat-elephants/>
for
photo & graphic.

Electric fence installed by farmers to protect their farm crops from
elephants has proven to be one of the biggest threats against the animals,
having killed almost 10 of them in the past two years.

The death of a bull elephants in a para rubber plantation in Ban Khao
Khong, Tambon Pawa of Kaeng Hang Maew district of Chanthaburi on Sept 17
and the death of another elephant one day afterward in Kanchanaburi
province were attributable to electric shock from electric fence.

Farmers living in areas located near the habitats of the pachyderms used to
resort to firecrackers or install barb-wired fence to protect their crops
from hungry elephants looking for food, but with little success.

Hence, many of them turned to electric fence using electricity generated
from a 12-volt car battery as the deterrent which does not work effectively
because of the thick skin of the animals. Then, they turned to the 220-volt
household electricity by attaching the household electric wire to the fence
which has proven to be effective – and deadly too.

Since 2015, Thai PBS news team has discovered that nine elephants were
electrocuted by electric fence in villagers’ farms – mostly in areas
bordering with the habitats of the animals.

But during June-September this year, five were electrocuted. The most
infamous incident took place in 2015 in La-u forest of Huey Sat Yai
district of Prachuab Khiri Khan when three elephants were electrocuted and
found lying dead next to each other.

Mattana Srikrachang, a former elephant expert of the Department of National
Parks, Wildlife and Plants Conservation, admitted that she was shocked by
the news of the two recent elephant deaths – electrocuted by electric fence
in Chanthaburi and Prachuab Khiri Khan.

She noted that the deaths of the two elephants were a clear sign that the
conflict between humans and animals has become more violent.

“We found out that, in the 69 conservation areas which are the habitats of
elephants, there are 21 points where the elephants manage to venture out to
scour for food such as the forests in the eastern region in Chanathaburi
and Rayong.

Here, villagers have installed electric fence to protect their crops and
some of them used 220-volt household electricity which is against the law
and intended to kill the elephants,” she said.

Ms Mattana admitted that the government’s project to dig trenches to
prevent elephants from getting out of their habitats has proven to be a
complete failure.

She explained that since there was not enough food and water in the jungle,
the elephants ventured out and encroached on human settlements to scour for
food and water.

“The habit of Thai elephants has not changed.  They are not aggressive nor
fierce.  But elephants learn to adjust themselves.  They found there are
plenty of food outside their habitats, so they kept coming out,” said Ms
Mattana, adding that she would like to know how many people were punished
and what was the extent of the punishment for causing the deaths of the
elephants.

Meanwhile, Paitoon Intharabut, chief of Salak Phra wildlife sanctuary in
Kanchanaburi, told Thai PBS that his officials had already lodged a
complaint with Lat Ya police over the death of an elephant.

Minister of Natural Resources and Environment General Surasak Kanchanarat
and officials will be in Chanthaburi on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss
with officials concerned to resolve the conflict between humans and
elephants and to follow up the project the trench project in Khao Sibha
Chan national park.