Plastic waste kills elephant near Pamba (Thiruvananthapuram, India)
KP Saikiran, Times of India
February 7, 2018

See link
<https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/thiruvananthapuram/plastic-waste-kills-elephant-near-pamba/articleshow/62811393.cms>
for photo.

On January 27, a week after the conclusion of the Makaravilakku festival at
Sabarimala, a 20-year old female elephant was found dead near
Valiyanavattom hardly one kilometre away from the sewage treatment plant at
Pamba.

The post-mortem examination of the carcass revealed that it died after
large quantity of plastic blocked its alimentary canal, resulting in
internal bleeding and failure of the vital organs. Though it is the only,
and the first death of the mammal after the complete plastic ban in
Sabarimala by the high court in 2016, the forest officials have found that
plastic is a key content in the dung of the mammal all over forest region
covering the hill shrine.

"Plastic waste is a common sight after the season all along the route from
Pamba to Sannidhanam, Azhutha to Pamba and other forest routes. Though the
cleaning-up is happening along the routes after the season, the plastic
that moves to interior areas are posing a threat to the wildlife," said
Georgi P Mathachen, field director of forest department.

The elephants are attracted by food waste, especially those with salt
content like packed foods. They have been found to consume plastic even
from inside the incinerator shed.

The forest department in 2016 had filed an affidavit before the high court
after a Sambhar deer died after consuming plastic, on the basis of which
the high court imposed a total plastic ban in Sabarimala. But despite this,
loads of plastic bottles and packets are still dumped in and around the
shrine, after the pilgrimage season.

Travancore Devaswom Board, however, blamed the forest department for the
elephant death. "In the case of the elephant that died, three-metre long
plastic sheet used by shopkeepers at Valiyanavattom and Cheriyanavattom was
found in its intestine. The shops are leased out by the forest department.
They are not doing anything to ensure that plastic waste is properly
disposed of," said A Padmakumar, president, TDB.

https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/thiruvananthapuram/plastic-waste-kills-elephant-near-pamba/articleshow/62811393.cms