Tusker shot at by poacher in Narsinghpur village (State of Odisha, India)
The Orissa Post
October 17, 2018

See link
<http://www.orissapost.com/tusker-shot-at-by-poacher-in-narsinghpur-village/>
for photo.

NARASINGHPUR: A tusker sustained critical injuries after it was shot at by
a poacher at Chandragiri reserve forest on the fringes of Guptamanik
village under Narsinghpur east forest circle range in Cuttack district, a
report said Wednesday.

The matter came to the fore after locals noticed the tusker lying on road
near Mahulmada village and writhing in pain.

On being informed, forest officials led by assistant conservator of forests
(ACF) Purna Chandra Guru, east circle ranger Abhiram Jena rushed to the
spot and started treatment of the ailing animal with the help of
veterinarians. However, the health condition of the tusker remained
critical due to loss of excessive blood.

Preliminary inquiries indicated that the poacher might have shot the tusker
to kill it for its ivory as forest officials have stopped regular
patrolling of the forests in regular intervals due to the presence of
Sundari tigress of Satkosia sanctuary in Narsinghpur forest.

According to villagers, the pachyderms are frequenting the villages on the
fringes of the forests regularly during daytime over last few days and
causing significant damage to their crops on their farmlands.

However, the forest officials have not done anything to alleviate their
fear. It is claimed that the incident might have taken place three to four
days back but the silence of the forest officials about its condition
sparked surprise as well as anger among villagers.

When contacted, the ACF said the condition of the animal continued to
remain critical despite veterinarians administering treatment. They are
closely monitoring its condition which they hope will improve soon, he
added.