Poachers kill jumbo, take away tusks (India)
Times of India
Aug 2, 2014

SAMBALPUR: Close on the heels of killing of an elephant in Padiabahal range
of Sambalpur forest division, yet another jumbo was found shot dead in the
same area. A forest team recovered the carcass on Friday and cremated it
after conducting autopsy. This is sixth such incident during past six
months. In all cases, ivory mafia took away tusks after gunning down the
pachyderms.

In the latest incident, forest officials recovered the carcass near
Kandaraghat hillock under Jujomora block. It is suspected that the elephant
was killed about a week back and the miscreants left the body after
chopping off the head portion.

Local villagers said they informed the forest officials after spotting the
carcass on Thursday. "We suspect involvement of ivory mafia in the incident
and have started investigation," DFO (Sambalpur) Santosh Kumar Joshi said.
He said a bullet was recovered from the body during autopsy.

Forest officials on Thursday arrested three persons in connection with
killing of another jumbo recently and seized a gun and Rs 72,000 from their
possession. The accused were identified as Yogesh Lugun, 35, Motilal Munda,
25, and Barun Kumar Barua, 29, of Kadelpal village under Sambalpur's
Jamenkira block. They have confessed their involvement in the killing of an
elephant, body of which was recovered from a forest under Padiabahal range
on July 24, said Joshi.

"We could not recover the tusks from the accused as they had already sold
them," Joshi added. He said a show-cause notice has been served to range
officer Anil Mohanty while forester Ramesh Padhi and forest guard Rasmi
Ranjan Das were suspended for negligence of duty.