Electrocuted elephant buried, tusks removed (Hyderdad, India)
Times of India
July 6, 2016

The tusks of a young male elephant, aged around 20 or 22 years, that was
killed after it came in contact with live electric wires near Talakona in
Chittoor district were removed for safe keeping by forest officials. Later
the carcass of the tusker was buried.

The tusks will be destroyed after the incident report is sent, along with
the post-mortem report, to the AP chief wildlife warden, divisional forest
officer of Tirupati, Subba Reddy said.

He said this measure was to prevent people from digging up the elephant's
body for the valuable tusks and selling them. Possession or sale of
elephant tusks is a serious crime under the Wildlife Protection Act. "The
elephant died on Monday after it came in contact with three live electric
wires that were hanging just about seven feet above the ground. The animal
was about nine and a half feet tall and was about a year or two away from
reaching breeding age and is a big loss," Subba Reddy said.

As soon as we got the information on Monday, we rushed to the spot and
conducted a post-mortem, he added. The forest department, he said, also
sought an explanation from the electricity department as to why the supply
lines were left hanging so low.

The young bull elephant was a loner and must have strayed out of the Sri
Venkateswara Wildlife Sanctuary by taking a route over a stream, he said.
There is another local herd of about 25 elephants in the area that includes
five calves, Subba Reddy said.

Normally, some of the elephants leave the forest and enter the
eco-sensitive area in the 10 km radius, especially around summer during the
mango season. Though the season of the fruit is now over, the herd is still
in the plains and has not moved back to the forested area of the sanctuary
on the plateau, he added.