Snared Maniyan freed of suffering (Wayanad District, India)
The The Times of India
October 27, 2017

See link
<https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kozhikode/snared-maniyan-freed-of-suffering/articleshow/61279735.cms>
for photo.

Kozhikode: Wild tusker Maniyan, who had hit headlines for his unique
camaraderie with people on the fringes of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary
(WWS), has become a victim to the cruelty of snare traps.

However, the 35-year-old tusker was lucky to get timely treatment from
forest department authorities who tranquillized the animal on Friday and
removed the steel wire of the snare trap which was found lodged deep in its
left front leg.

WWS warden N T Sajan said the elephant has been limping around in the
forest fringes in acute pain for the past three days, following which the
department decided to treat it after chemical immobilization.

A medical team led by veterinary surgeon Dr Arun Zachariah tranquilized the
animal at Pokalamalam in Kurichiad range at 12.30pm and on examination, a
steel wire of the snare trap was found struck inside the wound.

“If left unattended, the wound could have become fatal. The steel wire
snare trap had sunk around 2.5cm inside the leg and the wound had developed
infection. The wire was removed and the wound was packed with medicines. We
hope that the animal will recover soon,”Zachariah said.

The treatment lasted for four hours. The animal recovered from sedation
around 4.30 pm and it was left free. The animal will be closely monitored
for the next few days. Sajan said that the elephant could have got trapped
in a snare laid to catch deer or boar.

The tusker had over the years became a pet to the residents at Kurichiad
and Chethalayan forest ranges. It has been so friendly to humans that some
villagers used to hand feed it. Maniyan on his part had been returning the
affection by abstaining from crop raiding.
