Reduction of habitats a major reason of man-elephant conflict (Sonitpur
District, India)
Assam Tribune
December 13, 2017

TEZPUR: Man-elephant conflict in Sonitpur district is now turning
catastrophic for both elephants and humans.

The latest tragic incident of five elephants getting crushed by a train
near Balipara came close on the heels of a Bhalukpung-based ITBP jawan
dying an untimely death on December 3 when a wild tusker attacked his
Bhalukpung-based camp.

The deceased was identified as Paban Kumar of Haryana.Earlier, one Chandan
Das of Nameri Rihajuli was killed by a wild elephant while he was on way to
his friendâ€™s home. The people of Mulangaon, Charidwar, Balipara,
Dhekerigaon, Dighali, Owholagaon, Gormora, Bogijuli, Bhakatgaon etc., under
Charidwar revenue circle near Nameri National Park are passing sleepless
nights for the last couple of months due to the pachyderm havoc. Herds of
wild elephants are damaging large areas of paddy fields and dwellings of
many families in the area.

It may be noted that since last year the problem has got aggravated as many
elephant-grazing areas and corridors have decreased. Of these places, the
Balipara AIDC area was an important and permanent elephant habitat spot.
However, after the area was given away in the name of development to
companies like Patanjali and Dabur India Limited, the wild elephants have
been facing problems in their habitat.

As this area was an elephant habitat, herds now enter the villages or tea
garden areas causing massive damages. To check the menace, the villagers
adopt certain unwanted ways like poisoning, digging of big trenches so that
elephants fall into it, electrocution etc. Till date, as a result of such
ways adopted by the villagers, many wild elephants have been killed.

Recently, a carcass of a wild elephant was found near Chatai railway track
in Nameri National Park. The carcass bore a number of bullet injuries of a
handmade gun. Forest department officials informed this reporter that the
bullets recovered from the body of the elephant carcass have been sent to
forensic science laboratory for proper investigation.

The common people of the area and the wildlife lovers like Sourav Barkataki
have expressed their total annoyance over the growing man-elephant conflict.