Jumbo casualty on the rise (State of Assam, India)
Sumir Karmakar, The Telegraph India
December 22, 2017

See link
<https://www.telegraphindia.com/states/north-east/jumbo-casualty-on-the-rise-195349>
for photo.

GUWAHATI: Every winter, the man-animal conflict escalates. As water sources
dry up, elephants venture into paddy fields for food and are poached or
killed.

In Assam, 916 people were killed by elephants and nearly 250 elephants
killed by humans or human-controlled devices since 2006. According to the
Assam forest department, the state has reported 80 human deaths in 2006 and
the figures rose to 118 in 2015, 110 in 2016 and 86 so far this year.

Subhash Hasda, 49, a farmer of Bhergaon village in Udalguri district, was
missing since Wednesday afternoon. His body was recovered on Thursday
morning from near a paddy field. He had been trampled to death by a herd of
at least 30 elephants which came down from a nearby hill. A few metres away
lay the carcass of a male elephant which probably came in contact with a
live wire.

On December 11, a speeding train mowed down five elephants when a herd was
crossing the tracks in Sonitpur.

The state has reported nearly 40 elephant deaths this year after the
animals were electrocuted or run over by speeding trains. Elephants also
die after attacks by villagers when houses and crops are damaged.

While conservationists blame growing pressure on the state's forests and
elephant reserves and increasing population of elephants, the state forest
department is struggling to tackle the acute problem. The elephant
population has increased from 5,246 in 2002 to 5,719 in 2017.

Forest minister Pramila Rani Brahma on Thursday said: "I have asked the
electricity department to ensure that power lines are maintained properly.
I have also asked the railways to maintain speed limit in forest areas."

NFR officials said they maintain speed limit in elephant corridors. "We
have a WhatsApp group comprising forest and railway staff. We act quickly
if timely information about movement of elephants is provided by forest
personnel. It is neither possible to stop plying of trains or stop the
elephants abruptly," an official said.

The forest department has formed anti-depredation squads in each
subdivision and opened a toll free number (18003453980) for 24-hour help.