Injured pregnant elephant provided treatment (India)
The New Indian Express
June 16, 2017

BARIPADA: An injured female elephant which was in pain for nearly five days
was provided treatment in Similipal Tiger Reserve (STR) on Thursday by a
team of veterinarians and experts from Odisha University of Agriculture and
Technology (OUAT), Bhubaneswar.

As per the direction of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCC), the
veterinary department had injected antibiotic through tranquillising
process to provide some relief to the elephant. As the elephant is in
advanced stages of pregnancy, experts were called in to provide proper
treatment to the wound on upper portion of its  right leg.

Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Sanjay Kumar Swain said, the department
learnt about the wounded elephant a few days back and staff had been
keeping a watch on its movement.The elephant is part of a nine-member herd,
including two tuskers, of STR which were seen moving inside Budhikhamari
and Ahari forest areas under Krushnachandrapur forest division for the last
couple of weeks.

A tusker from the herd died after coming in contact with a 11 KV wire at
Jharjamda village under Betnoti forest range on June 8. The live wire was
hanging barely at a height of eight feet from the ground. Another wild
tusker with six other female elephants of the herd were roaming inside the
forest, the DFO added. The female elephant could have sustained injuries
either from a branch of a tree or attacked by a tusker for refusing to
mate.

The injury was so severe that the wound turned septic and pus was oozing
from it, the DFO said.

The treating team included a professor and his assistant from OUAT, two
veterinary doctors from STR. More treatment would be needed but due to her
advanced pregnancy, other members of the herd are keeping a watch on her.
