50 tuskers perish in Aâ€™garh in 5 yrs (State of Odisha, India)
The Daily Pioneer
October 7, 2018

Once, the Athagarh forest was rich wildlife hub with elephants, tigers,
boars, bears, rabbits, deer, sambars and many other animals and birds
living.

But due to no-holds-barred cutting of trees in the jungle and animal
poaching by mafias in connivance with the forest officials, Athagarh
forests have turned unsafe for the wildlife.

Lack of food and adequate drinking water in the jungle has forced the wild
animals to stray into the human habitations, taking the farm crops as their
food, triggering man-animal conflicts. The rare animals like tigers
sometimes caught in CCTV cameras in Narsinghpur forest range areas have
gone extinct.

Similarly, the jungle once provided a congenial atmosphere for the
elephants which were seen in large numbers at least a decade ago. But for
the present precarious conditions of the jungle, the number of elephants is
fast decreasing.

Only in the last five years, the Athagarh forest division has witnessed the
death of 50 elephants as per official data but the private sources say over
60 have perished due to poaching for various reasons like collecting tusks,
disease, killing by farmers for destructing their crops, falling in ditches
and water reservoirs and infighting etc.

This week, the department has seized the carcasses of three elephants from
Athagarh forest range areas. As per the data available with Athagarh Forest
Division office in 2013-14, at least 11 elephants died. In 2014-15 its
number, however, fell at 3. In 2015-16 at least 10 elephants died and in
2016-17 the number rose to 12. In 2017-18 till September end, 14 elephants
perished.

Though the Forest department has spent crores of rupees for protecting the
wild lives in Athagarh jungle by employing hundreds of forest forces,
including DFO, ACF, Range Officers, Foresters, Forest Guards, elephant
watchers and trackers, besides para forest staff along with other
Government officials and Vana Surakshya Samiti members, and has undertaken
several projects like solar fencing, digging of water bodies in the jungle
etc, but they have proved futile.

As the department fails to seize any valuable tusks from the possession of
the poachers and arrest anybody in connection with the poaching of animals,
it raises eyebrows on the efficiency of the forest officials here.

On the Wildlife Day on October 5, the animal and nature lovers expressed
serious concern over the trend here.
