Injured elephant spotted after fatal Chachoengsao crash (Thailand)
Sonthanaporn Inchan, The Bangkok Post
October 28, 2018

See link
<https://www.bangkokpost.com/news/general/1565994/injured-elephant-spotted-after-fatal-chachoengsao-crash>
for photo.

CHACHOENGSAO: An injured elephant - possibly the one hit by a van in a
fatal accident in Lad Krathing forest on Saturday - was spotted by wildlife
officials shortly before an SUV hit another elephant in the same area. The
accident occurred at about 5am on Saturday on a road through the Lad
Krathing forest plantation in Sanam Chai Khet district.

A van taking a group of residents from Tha Ta Kiap district for a "thod
krathin" merit-making ceremony in Roi-et province crashed into a herd of
five elephants. Two passengers were killed and nine others injured.

One elephant also believed to be have been hurt in the crash, which badly
damaged the van. At about 3pm, 10 hours after the accident, officials from
the Khao Ang Rue Nai wildlife sanctuary spotted a herd of five elephants
walking across Road 4014 which runs through the Lad Krathing forest
plantation, said Yu Senatham, director of the 2nd Forest Conservation
Office of the Wildlife, National Parks and Plant Conservation Department.

One of the elephants, about five years old and weighing about five tonnes,
was walking unsteadily on an injured leg. The injury was not believed
serious. About 40 minutes after the sighting, another accident occurred
when an SUV struck a herd of five elephants crossing rural Road 3259, the
ChachoengsaoWang Nam Yen road.

The SUV was badly damaged. The driver, who was not hurt, said his vehicle
hit one elephant in the left leg. Wildlife officials speculated the
elephants in the two accidents were from the same herd. Me Yu said
officials and veterinarians will on Sunday scour the forest plantation to
locate the injured elephants for medical treatment.
