Jumbo Carcass Riddle (State of Assam, India)
Kongkon K. Bora, The Telegraph
October 23, 2017

See link
<https://www.telegraphindia.com/states/north-east/jumbo-carcass-riddle-180089>
for photo. Editorâ€™s Note: the image is very disturbing.

Sivasagar: The carcass of an adult male wild elephant, with its tusks,
trunk and tail chopped off and chunks of meat hacked off from the body, was
found at Dolopa village, 37km from Assam's Sivasagar town, on Saturday.

Residents who found the carcass in the wee hours said the elephant could
have been poisoned as it appeared to be healthy. They said the tusks, trunk
and tail were missing and chunks of meat had been carved out of the body
with a sharp weapon.

They, however, refused to speculate whether the animal was killed for
alleged meat consumption though they admitted that some locals do consume
elephant meat.

They said the elephant had strayed from its herd and was seen wandering in
the area on Friday.

Forest officials rushed to the spot and collected samples from the carcass
for investigation. They later buried the carcass in the adjoining field.

Divisional forest officer of Sivasagar forest division Bidya Bordoloi said
they conducted post-mortem at the site but did not find any trace of
poison. They have sent samples to the forensic lab and are expecting the
report next week.

Bordoloi said the death was "mysterious", ruling out electrocution as well.
Asked the reason for the animal's death, he said nothing could be said till
they receive the forensic report.

Residents said elephants, revered as a religious and cultural icon in
India, are regarded as enemies in the area as they regularly stomp into the
villages, damage paddy fields and demolish houses. "Several incidents of
attack on villagers have been reported too," a villager said. Because of
the man-elephant conflict, locals at times take extreme measures such as
poisoning jumbos, he added.

The area is frequented by wild elephants and several incidents of
man-elephant conflict have been reported from there in the recent past.
Several elephant carcasses have been recovered without the trunk or tail.

Though, elephants are hounded and killed when they wander into human
settlements, damage crops and houses, they are also killed for ivory.

India has nearly 30,000 elephants in its forests and reserves and the
animal enjoys the highest Schedule 1 species status under the Wildlife
Protection Act 1972. It is also declared endangered by the International
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).

Elephant meat is considered a delicacy in some Southeast Asian countries
like Thailand and Vietnam and in African nations like Cameroon and Congo.

The Indian elephant is native to India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar,
Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Laos, China, Cambodia and Vietnam.