Carcasses of elephant, calf found in Mayurbhanj, poisoning suspected (India)
New Indian Express
September 11, 2016

See link for photo
<http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/odisha/Carcasses-of-elephant-calf-found-in-Mayurbhanj-poisoning-suspected/2016/09/11/article3618640.ece>
.

A female elephant and her calf were found dead in a paddy field in
Mayurbhanj district on Saturday. The carcasses of the elephants were
spotted near Niyuti village under Gurguria forest range of Karanjia
division. While the female elephant was aged about 20, the calf was only
three months old. Though the cause of their deaths was yet to be
ascertained, preliminary reports indicated that they might have died of
poisoning.

A group of veterinary officials from Karanjia and another veterinary team
from Baripada jointly conducted an autopsy. Assistant Conservator of Forest
(ACF) Baidyanath Majhi said the autopsy report is awaited.

Tension prevailed in the area as forest officials arrived late despite
prior intimation. According to locals, forest officials were intimated on
Friday night after they heard screams of the pachyderms in the field, but
none came to their rescue.

The villagers said a herd of elephants from neighbouring Jharkhand had been
wreaking havoc in the area by damaging paddy crops in several acres of
land. They suspected the farmers might have applied pesticides in the paddy
fields to ward off the pachyderms and the mother and calf might have eaten
the poisoned paddy plants.

Some forest officials, who visited the spot, were of the opinion that the
death of the elephants might have been due to anthrax, as blood stains were
found in their urine and stool.

Karanjia DFO Prasanna Kumar Behera said it would be difficult to decide on
their cause of death as no injury mark is spotted. “We are waiting for the
autopsy report to know the exact reason behind the twin deaths,” he added.