Two killed when van hits wild elephant (Thailand)
The Bangkok Post
October 27, 2018

See link
<https://www.bangkokpost.com/news/general/1565622/two-killed-when-van-hits-wild-elephant>
for photos.

CHACHOENGSAO: Two people were killed and nine others injured, eight badly,
when a van carrying them for a "thod krathin" merit-making ceremony a
temple hit a wild elephant crossing a road in Sanam Chai Khet district
early on Saturday.

The pachyderm was also injured and fled into Lad Krathing forest plantation
following the crash that occurred in Ban Huay Som village, tambon Lad
Krathing at around 5am, said Pol Lt Col Nurat Chanthakhun, investigation
chief at Sanam Chai Khet police station. Police found a van with Bangkok
licence plates was badly damaged about 500m from a bridge across Huay Som
canal.

The van driver, identified later as Somchai Sapsamruay, 54, and female
passenger Yada Saennamwong, 47, were killed. Their bodies were trapped in
the wreckage. Nine other passengers, eight of whom were women, were hurt.
All but one were seriously injured and rushed to a nearby hospital. A
toenail of the elephant involved in the crash was found and there were also
traces of blood in the nearby forest.

A police investigation found that the ill-fated van and two other vans were
on the way to take a group of residents in Tha Takiab district of
Chachoengsao to Roi Et province for a thod krathin religious ceremony. The
vans left the district at 4am. The van involved in the crash was the second
one, with 11 people including the driver. When it arrived at the scene, a
large elephant suddenly emerged from the forest and crossed the road.

As visibility was poor due to heavy fog, the driver did not see the jumbo
was crossing the road. The van then rammed into the pachyderm, which fell
on the front section of the van and its windshield. The force of the crash
killed two and injured other passengers on board.

The elephant, believed to sustain injuries, fled to the forest. Officials
at Khao Ang Rue Nai wildlife sanctuary were despatched to look for the
injured jumbo. They had yet to find the animal. Boonmee Khaodee, 52, the
driver of the first van, said the three vans were on the way to take 30
passengers for the merit-making ceremony in northeastern Roi Et province.

When he drove near the scene, he noticed one elephant stood at the
construction site of an iron fence about 20m from the road. Shortly later,
the following van got involved in the crash. He drove back to the crash
scene. The elephant fell on the front of the van. It subsequently got up
and fled into the forest. He alerted the driver of the third van about the
crash.

Later in the afternoon, another wild elephants was injured when a SUV
rammed into it on a road in Saman Chai Khet district, not far from the
scene of a fatal crash involving a van and one elephant early in the
morning.

The second crash occurred at around 3.40pm on security road No 3259, or
Chachoengsao-Wang Nam Yen road. The front section of the black SUV with
Bangkok licence plates was badly damaged, but the driver was unhurt.

The driver, whose name was not revealed, said he was driving from Wang Nam
Yen district of Sa Kaeo to buy goods for Sundayâ€™s merit-making at a temple
when five wild elephants emerged from the forest and suddenly crossed the
road. He was unable to apply brakes in time, causing his vehicle to ram
into one of the pachyderms.

The jumbo was hit in the left leg and fled into the forest with the other
elephants. Another team of officials began the search for the second
injured elephant. The accident scene was about 1km away from the scene of
the van-elephant crash.