2 HELD FOR ELEPHANTS ELECTROCUTION
The Hindu
January 27, 2004

Two farm assistants have been taken into custody by special teams of the 
Forest department in connection with the electrocution of a tusker and a 
female elephant at two places in the Coimbatore reserve forest division. One 
incident was reported on Saturday night and the other on Sunday. The female 
elephant was killed at Palapatti near the Sirumugai reserve forest area off 
Mettuppalayam, when it tried to stray into a farm, where cabbage, tobacco 
and plantain crops were raised. At Anaimedu in the Boluvampatti forest area, 
a 20-year-old tusker was electrocuted.

Talking to The Hindu, the District Forest Officer, P. Durairasu, said that 
with the depletion of buffer land, which falls between farm and forest land, 
elephants regularly strayed into farms in search of food and water.

He appealed to farmers to refrain from cultivating crops, which attracted 
elephants, and sought a change in the cropping pattern at least on forest 
fringes. The farmers were expected to register with the Forest department, 
the Electricity Board and the district administration before they went for 
electric fencing.

Farmers providing illegal current connection to their fences instead of 
using battery or solar power had come into light. The animals stray into 
farms only after dusk or early morning and the farmers provide the 
connection late in the night to avoid the notice of patrol teams.

The department proposed to keep an eye on fences from Madukkarai to 
Mettuppalayam to ensure that the farmers drew power only from solar panels 
or batteries. The agriculturists would be educated on the need to register 
their names with the department, the TNEB and the district administration.

Eight places were identified for sinking borewells to fill up water troughs, 
especially in areas prone to man-animal conflict. The work would be taken up 
during February first week.