K’taka vet’s efforts to save Raipur jumbo go in vain (State of
Chhattisgarh, India)
Rohith BR, The The Times of India
November 17, 2017

BENGALURU: A government veterinarian from Karnataka, who led efforts to
revive a female elephant which was suspected to have suffered a lumbar
injury after falling into a 18-ft-deep well in Chhattisgarh, is distraught
after the jumbo breathed its last on Friday evening.

Padmavati, weighing around three tonnes, had been pulled out of the well on
November 14 in a 42-hour operation involving a dozen trained elephants, two
cranes and a JCB. Though the Chhattisgarh forest department had two
veterinarians, the authorities decided to get in touch with Dr Prayag H S,
a senior wildlife veterinarian, who has worked with Mysore Zoo as well as
the Karnataka forest department.

Dr Prayag assists forest departments of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana
in animal-rescue operations and is pursuing his PhD in wildlife from
Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar. He
said on November 16 he got a call and a letter from the office of the chief
conservator of forests circle, Ambikapur (Chhattisgarh). He said he didn't
think twice before heading to Raipur, from where he went straight to the
Pingla Rehabilitation Centre where the elephant was kept.

"They needed expertise and right equipment to treat the sub-adult elephant.
I rushed there with an x-ray machine and drugs. They had sent me pictures
and videos of the rescue operation through WhatsApp before I reached the
spot. This helped me equip myself for the treatment," he added.

The operation, however, was fraught with challenges. "On Thursday, there
was a Naxal attack near the camp. The principal chief conservator of
forests told us to get back to the inspection bungalow located 100km away.
On Friday morning, I returned to the camp," said Prayag.

Padmavati died around 3pm. "There were worrying signs since morning. The
elephant wasn't flapping its ears nor moving its tail, clearly indicating
lumbar injury. An elephant generally drinks up to 150-170 litres of water,
but this one didn't even touch water despite our best efforts. The animal
was severely dehydrated and running high temperature. Soon, her pulse grew
weak and veins collapsed. Despite our best efforts, we could not revive
her," said Prayag. "The cause of death will be known after postmortem,"
said a forest official from Chhattisgarh.

K’taka vet’s efforts to save Raipur jumbo go in vain (State of
Chhattisgarh, India)
Rohith BR, The The Times of India
November 17, 2017

BENGALURU: A government veterinarian from Karnataka, who led efforts to
revive a female elephant which was suspected to have suffered a lumbar
injury after falling into a 18-ft-deep well in Chhattisgarh, is distraught
after the jumbo breathed its last on Friday evening.

Padmavati, weighing around three tonnes, had been pulled out of the well on
November 14 in a 42-hour operation involving a dozen trained elephants, two
cranes and a JCB. Though the Chhattisgarh forest department had two
veterinarians, the authorities decided to get in touch with Dr Prayag H S,
a senior wildlife veterinarian, who has worked with Mysore Zoo as well as
the Karnataka forest department.

Dr Prayag assists forest departments of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana
in animal-rescue operations and is pursuing his PhD in wildlife from
Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar. He
said on November 16 he got a call and a letter from the office of the chief
conservator of forests circle, Ambikapur (Chhattisgarh). He said he didn't
think twice before heading to Raipur, from where he went straight to the
Pingla Rehabilitation Centre where the elephant was kept.

"They needed expertise and right equipment to treat the sub-adult elephant.
I rushed there with an x-ray machine and drugs. They had sent me pictures
and videos of the rescue operation through WhatsApp before I reached the
spot. This helped me equip myself for the treatment," he added.

The operation, however, was fraught with challenges. "On Thursday, there
was a Naxal attack near the camp. The principal chief conservator of
forests told us to get back to the inspection bungalow located 100km away.
On Friday morning, I returned to the camp," said Prayag.

Padmavati died around 3pm. "There were worrying signs since morning. The
elephant wasn't flapping its ears nor moving its tail, clearly indicating
lumbar injury. An elephant generally drinks up to 150-170 litres of water,
but this one didn't even touch water despite our best efforts. The animal
was severely dehydrated and running high temperature. Soon, her pulse grew
weak and veins collapsed. Despite our best efforts, we could not revive
her," said Prayag. "The cause of death will be known after postmortem,"
said a forest official from Chhattisgarh.

K’taka vet’s efforts to save Raipur jumbo go in vain (State of
Chhattisgarh, India)
Rohith BR, The The Times of India
November 17, 2017

BENGALURU: A government veterinarian from Karnataka, who led efforts to
revive a female elephant which was suspected to have suffered a lumbar
injury after falling into a 18-ft-deep well in Chhattisgarh, is distraught
after the jumbo breathed its last on Friday evening.

Padmavati, weighing around three tonnes, had been pulled out of the well on
November 14 in a 42-hour operation involving a dozen trained elephants, two
cranes and a JCB. Though the Chhattisgarh forest department had two
veterinarians, the authorities decided to get in touch with Dr Prayag H S,
a senior wildlife veterinarian, who has worked with Mysore Zoo as well as
the Karnataka forest department.

Dr Prayag assists forest departments of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana
in animal-rescue operations and is pursuing his PhD in wildlife from
Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar. He
said on November 16 he got a call and a letter from the office of the chief
conservator of forests circle, Ambikapur (Chhattisgarh). He said he didn't
think twice before heading to Raipur, from where he went straight to the
Pingla Rehabilitation Centre where the elephant was kept.

"They needed expertise and right equipment to treat the sub-adult elephant.
I rushed there with an x-ray machine and drugs. They had sent me pictures
and videos of the rescue operation through WhatsApp before I reached the
spot. This helped me equip myself for the treatment," he added.

The operation, however, was fraught with challenges. "On Thursday, there
was a Naxal attack near the camp. The principal chief conservator of
forests told us to get back to the inspection bungalow located 100km away.
On Friday morning, I returned to the camp," said Prayag.

Padmavati died around 3pm. "There were worrying signs since morning. The
elephant wasn't flapping its ears nor moving its tail, clearly indicating
lumbar injury. An elephant generally drinks up to 150-170 litres of water,
but this one didn't even touch water despite our best efforts. The animal
was severely dehydrated and running high temperature. Soon, her pulse grew
weak and veins collapsed. Despite our best efforts, we could not revive
her," said Prayag. "The cause of death will be known after postmortem,"
said a forest official from Chhattisgarh.

