Kumki loses tusk after being attacked by wild tusker (Coimbatore, India)
Wilson Thomas, The Hindu
January 19, 2017

Sujay, 45, a male kumki elephant attached to Chadivayal elephant camp lost
its tusk after attacked by a wild elephant in the early hours of Wednesday.
Forest Department officials said that Sujay could have been attacked by a
wild elephant in musth (an aggressive behaviour born out of urge for
biological ventilation).

The incident happened around 4.15 a.m. when the a lone tusker trespassed
into the compound of Chadivayal camp, breaking the fencing. Though eight
forest staff were present at the camp, Sujay, who was chained, was badly
attacked by the lone tusker. The right tusk of the kumki which came off
from the root was found on the ground. The lost tusk had a projected length
of three feet.

“After hearing loud trumpeting sounds, our staff chased the wild elephant
using crackers and torches. The wild elephant, a gigantic one aged around
40 and 11 feet tall, must be in musth as it broke the electric fencing to
enter the camp and attacked the kumki,” said C. Dinesh Kumar, Forest Rage
Officer, Booluvampatti.

Following the incident, Forest Department officials rushed to spot and
administered medicines to Sujay. Senior forest veterinarian N.S. Manoharan
checked the injury of the elephant and managed to arrest the bleeding.

“Sujay has been administered injections to heal the wound and antibiotics
to prevent infection. We will be closely monitoring his health in the
coming days,” said Dr. Manoharan.

According to forest officials, the elephant is taking food and water after
treatment. Following the incident, six more forest staff have been deputed
at camp which also has another kumki named Pari (36). The forest officials
are also observing the movement of the tusker that attacked Sujay.